Once we have covered CSX grid columns as well as CSX grid growth why don't we take a look at the new
shiny tool that is at our disposal by the name of fraction units and how they in fact simplify our life.
So let's say we have a three column layer and I would like to keep it that way or I would want to have
all my columns to be equal size.
So when we could do is start testing out these fraction units.
So in this case what I'm going to do is I'm just going to delete all of them and let's start writing
them and first and foremost I'm going to create a one column layout using one fraction.
So what means is the fraction is the fraction of available space.
So in my case since I have a one column layout that available space is in fact counter percent of my
container.
However if let's say we're going to have a two column land no notice now one fraction is in fact equal
to a 50 percent of my hundred percent correct.
Because that is the fraction of my available space.
So let's save it.
And notice.
There you go.
We have two equally sized columns.
Now let's say I'm going to decide that you know what from my available space to fractions of that space
I would like to use for my first column and then only one fraction I would like to use it for my second
column.
There you go.
My first column right now is using two fractions of the available space.
And then of course my second row is or I'm sorry a second column is using in fact only one fraction
and this of course could be changed I could say let's say five fractions and then of course my first
column is getting bigger and hopefully you get an idea where were the fractions.
We're just specifically saying well what would be the space we would like to use for that particular
column or that row from the available space.
So the same would work if let's say I would want to have a three column land.
The only thing I'm doing is you know what.
Get me three equally sized columns.
So for each of them we're going to use a one fraction of available space.
So if my available space is going to be bigger well then my columns are going to be bigger.
If my available space is going to be smaller we'll notice of course our columns are also going to be
smaller.
So as you can see it is a responsive value that is not a absolute value.
And of course we could do the same thing of course as we are working with arrows.
Now just to you that we can say you know what first row is going to be one fraction like so on orders.
It uses all the space then it has this five arms and then of course we have our implicit order but could
do exactly the same I can say one fraction one fraction and then of course we have a nice tile layout
where not only we're using the evenly spaced out columns or with we're also using evenly nicely spaced
out rows for our height.
So that's the reason why most likely has you're going to be working with a CSX grid you're going to
be reaching for this value because this gives you a very very nice layout without too much of a hassle
or using any kind of math.
So if you would want a four column layout of course the only thing you need is to add this particular
fraction.
Then if I would want let's say my second column to be bigger could add five fractions and hopefully
you'd get an idea if let's say this guy would be three fractions.
And I can go on and on and on.
So we're going to be using our available space whether that's with more height and then we're just going
to be dividing up in the fractions.